I see no changes, wake up in the morning and I ask myself, it's like
I let it go back to when we played as kids, but then it changed.
That's the way it is.
Come on.
That's just the way it is.
Things will never be the same.
Things will never be the same That's just the way it is
I see no changes, all I see is racist faces.
Misplaced hate makes disgrace to racists.
We under, I wonder what it takes to make this one better place.
Let's erase the wasted.
Take the evil out the people, they'll be acting right.
Cause vote black and white and smoke a crack tonight.
And the only time we chill is when we kill each other.
It takes skill to be real time to heal each other.
And although it seems evanescent, we ain't ready to see a black president.
It ain't a secret or concealed a fact, our penitentiary's packed and it's filled with blacks.
But some things will never change, try to show another
That's just the way it is Things will never be the same
Things will never be the same.
That's just the way it is.
Oh, yeah.
We gotta make a change.
It's time for us as a people to start making some changes.
Let's change the way we eat.
Let's change the way we live.
And let's change the way we treat each other.
You see, the old way wasn't working, so it's on us to do what we gotta do to survive.
And still I see no changes.
That's just the way it is Things will never be the same
That's just the way it is.
Things will never be the same.
Oh yeah.
Some things will never change.
So let me see if I know how to do this.
This should be good.
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
It is the 10th of September, 2024.
I'm coming to you live from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
It is 10.51 in the morning here.
I apologize for being late.
I've got a lot of excuses to share with you, and it's an impromptu Biology 101.
I titled it 101-3 Ruby Update and Twib Exercise.
This is my way of just getting back into the groove of things.
We had a little bit of a rough weekend because we had a bit of a scare.
And so I wanted to share a little bit of that with you because it's still a sort of experience that I'm processing.
And it's also kind of a very tiny
I don't know how to say it.
It's kind of a microcosm of where we've been over these last few years trying to, you know, rediscover the truth.
And myself as a still feels like a very inexperienced and young father.
And certainly as a
as a partner, my wife and I, as a partnership, are still, you know, learning all the ropes of being parents together and working together as kids grow.
It's a never-ending thing, you know, and it's not something I don't think anybody's an expert on except for maybe grandparents, and then really they're only experts on their kids and their time, and so it's really something that
is an incredibly humbling experience.
And actually, anybody that's owned a dog or a cat, I guess, I've never owned a cat, but I guess it happens with cats.
I'm sure it must happen with horses and maybe even farmers that really care for their livestock, like cattle and stuff, feel the same way as well, although there's a lot of them then.
I really can't stress enough how crazy it is, what I feel as though I've kind of discovered with regard to veterinary science, and in just one particular question in general.
I don't know if this is out of focus or what's going on.
I haven't really been looking at the screen here to see what it's finding.
I think I look all right.
So let me explain what's going on here, I guess.
Maybe that's the most important thing to do first.
Maybe I'll just blank this out.
So we've got a dog named Ruby, and if Ruby wanted to come in here right now, Ruby could come in here, but I think she's just laying in the garage and feeling really...
She's mama's dog.
So, you know, when mama's gone, the Ruby doesn't really hang out.
But Ruby wanted to come in here.
Ruby could come in here.
Ruby, come!
But I don't think she will.
Because she's sleeping in there and she's pretty hard to get off of that cold floor.
Anyway, the point is that Ruby is nine.
Ruby has not really been, per se, to the vet since 2016 when we got off the plane.
The last reason she went to the vet was to check her titer for her rabies shot before she could fly into America, and so that was when she was one year and three months old.
And since we've been in the United States, we will freely confess that we've never gone to a vet.
Mostly because vets don't, the things that you hear about vets in America are very much true.
They're not a place where you're taking a patient.
You're not gonna get a lot of information.
And there's, you know, this huge like chasm
wide difference between the most informed vet tech and the most ill-informed vet tech, the most informed veterinarian and the most ill-informed veterinarian.
And because this is a business, well there are other factors that are at play here and you can imagine that with pets not being people that there is a great deal more propensity for these kinds of
other reasons and other motivations and other shortcuts to take over.
And not, you know, I hate to say it like this, but patient care.
So I'm just going to tell you the story the way that I was, I experienced it.
And I hope you won't find it too boring.
I don't know if I should switch over to the other camera and try to do something writing, but I just think it's interesting, maybe just fine to sit here and just talk about it.
So Ruby, nine-year-old female, unfixed, unspayed, never had any puppies.
And I'm a biologist.
My wife is a biologist, albeit a plant biologist, plant physiologist, retired, if you will.
You know, I thought I knew a lot about dogs.
I thought I knew a lot about mammals.
You know, I've been reading about them my whole life.
I used to want to be a veterinarian way back when I was 12.
And so it's just this thing, you know, I read James Harriot, all things, all creatures great and small.
I mean, I thought about veterinarians as cool for a long time.
I watched Dr. Pohl, the whole thing.
And so what our primary strategy was here when she was sick was, you know, we wanted to go to a veterinarian that we could count on not to judge us for, you know, since 2016, not taking her anywhere for her eating raw meat, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So Ruby is pretty skinny.
She's exactly 100 pounds.
For as big as she is, that's pretty skinny.
You know, you can feel her ribs.
You can feel her spine.
She can move around really nice when she gets excited.
She's been a very, very, very healthy dog until this
last estrus.
So she, as most dogs do, if they are not fixed a couple times a year, it depends on the breed, will have this period of time where their behavior changes, they whine a little more, and they can drip from their genitals.
And this dripping is not a large quantity, and it's something that the dog often cleans up after herself.
And it's pretty normal.
I mean, normal in the sense of this is how it works with a dog that you don't fix.
And so some people make their dogs wear diapers.
Some people just keep them in the garage.
You know, there's lots of different solutions.
My wife is pretty much, you know, treats our house like a barn.
And so we just wear our shoes inside and, you know, Ruby comes in and out whatever door she wants.
And so in this case,
We try to keep her on her place and keep her clean and that kind of thing and encourage her to clean it up.
And in general, after nine years, she's gotten very good at understanding that that's her job to clean that up if it's somewhere in the floor or whatever.
But it's not perfect.
And for a lot of people who aren't dogs, I guess, or dog people, people who aren't dogs,
People who aren't dog people, this might sound like, oh my gosh, I can't believe you live like that.
But if you live with a dog that's 100 pounds and has this much hair and everything, it's kind of a fact of life that a lot of what's in our house probably smells like her and we don't realize it anymore.
People that aren't dog people probably come over and immediately know that like, oh my gosh, this dog dominates your life.
But from our perspective, it's just the way it is.
That's the way our house smells.
That's the way the floor is.
That's how often we have to vacuum and clean.
That's why the vacuum needs to be cleaned regularly around the thing that spins too, because there's hair in there and yada, yada, yada.
So we've been living with Ruby and other dogs.
I had a Jack Russell.
My wife had a Liam Berger mixed with a Brown Lab when we got married.
And so then we had two dogs for the whole time that we had our first two boys until we basically lost them in the same six months or the same three months.
They got old and decrepit.
The big one died and then the little one we put down because she was getting blind and starting to walk into cabinets.
And so Ruby is nine.
She's healthy.
She's unfixed.
And I thought I understood most about mammals, but it turns out that I didn't.
It turns out that dogs don't have a typical cycle like we imagine they might if we imagine that their cycle is similar to the females in our lives.
Um, and I didn't know that.
And in fact, what I find the first main point to make, um, that if I was writing something down, which I guess I could, um, is the, uh, the first thing I might write down is, is the idea.
Um, what, uh, do I have here?
Can I do this and then this?
The first thing I might write down, and then this should work.
Yeah.
The first thing I write right down is the biology of female dogs.
Now you might expect that if you were, sorry, I'll get bigger.
If you were to walk into a vet office with a sick dog and you told them that you loved your dog, you took good care of her, you fed her raw meat.
You know that they're very sensitive dogs.
You take great care, you groom her and yada, yada, yada.
And she's sick.
You think one of the first things, if you said that, you know, we think that she has an infection of the uterus that the internet told us was called a pio metra or pio mitra.
I don't know.
They generally, I think it's pio mitra, but they shorten it to pio.
Um, and so we, we want some help.
Um, you would think that the, one of the first things that a vet would do would explain to you the, the whoops, the biology of the dog, but that's actually not what happened.
Um,
In fact, the first couple of vets that we talked to gave us no information about that.
And the one that tried to give us information about that basically gave us the wrong information, or as far as we can tell now, in retrospect, the wrong information.
Now, let me preface the whole long-winded story by saying that, of course, you can imagine that yours truly was reading like a madman once we realized what this was.
I was trying to do my best to use my access to PubMed to figure out if I could teach myself
what a pyometra was and whether it was treatable and what kinds there were and how people did it and yada, yada, yada.
And what you find on the internet is that it's a deadly condition that can only be treated by surgery.
You just have to take your dog in and the uterus has to come out.
And this is an emergency surgery because dogs can die from pyometria.
And I'm not at all arguing with that, of course.
I'm not suggesting that that is not the case indeed.
What I am suggesting, however, is that there is a possibility that the default treatment
strategy that most vet techs and in fact most veterinarians know as the rule is that when a dog is having a pyometra that they need to have, they need to be spayed.
And what's extraordinary about this, of course, is that Ruby is a nine-year-old dog, so if you had insurance for a dog like this, it's even possible, or even likely, that the insurance would reject the whole idea.
Number one, because she might die, and number two, because she's old, and if she's only expected to live to be 11,
then doing a multi-thousand dollar surgery on this dog from the insurance company's perspective might not be risk-benefit rewarding enough to justify it.
They might just deny it.
And so what's interesting though is that this is not what happened to us.
We heard a unanimous from multiple calls, like many calls, that there's only one thing to do.
and that open or closed, which is something that they didn't distinguish between, explain the biology of at all, whether or not the pyometra was open or closed, didn't matter.
She had to have her uterus out and pretty much immediately.
There's nothing else you can do.
And now, of course, after searching the internet, we found out that that's not the case at all, that there are plenty of things you can do.
Of course, the default would not to be, in a similar situation, would not to be remove the uterus of a horse, or remove the uterus of a cow, or remove the uterus of, you see?
And so, it very quickly became obvious that these people weren't really thinking, they were just getting mad at us for suggesting that there might be something else we could do.
besides put your dog to sleep.
And so this is pretty extraordinary already because we were really frustrated.
We went to them with the idea that she can't.
that Lienberger's really don't do well with narcotics.
And so we're really worried about, we don't want to spay her.
Can we just give her antibiotics?
And is there a way to do a uterine lavage or something like this?
Because maybe they do that in horses or in cattle.
Can we give her, is there anything else that we can do?
And the unequivocal answer was, of course not.
And so what else was very interesting about this journey through what is pyrometra and what can be done about it were several lectures on YouTube or papers on PubMed and a general realization that there is no real good reason other than surgery can be quite successful in young dogs to compare a
a spay in old age with a spay in a puppy because that's what's done a lot in America now.
And in fact, if I recall correctly with my dog, Daisy, my little Jack Russell from way back when, when I was still in Chicago, that dog, I think was fixed early enough where essentially she never, never went through, I guess what we would call puberty, the full development with hormones and everything.
I don't think happened in that dog because she was fixed very early.
And the upsides of this, of course, are, in theory, she can never have a pyometra, which can kill her, and she will never have babies, and she will never have an unplanned pregnancy, and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
That's the idea.
That's what you're told.
So do it early.
And it's extraordinary now in retrospect to realize how I just went along with it when I was 20, whatever, and got Daisy as a puppy.
And it just made, you know, whatever the vet says, okay, I do it.
You know, I just want to walk the dog.
And so it's an extraordinary journey that I think all of us are on now as the different layers of this illusion of,
of high fidelity understanding is being broken.
And what I find extraordinary is, although I'm sure there are lots of people who already knew this with regard to horses and dogs and veterinarians and whatever, because we just have not been going to the vet and because our dog is just healthy and we just feed her raw meat and worry about grooming her and keeping her clean and healthy.
that we weren't aware of what's going on in America.
But for example, the very first time that we were told what would happen if we spayed Ruby was between two and $6,000.
Within two days of calling people, this number had already risen between 4 and 8K.
And when we finally decided that something really might need to be done, because we went to a veterinarian who was supposed to be holistic and alternative,
And she told us that there was no holistic alternative because she poked a swab inside of the dog and then looked at that under a scope or something and decided that alternative treatments were not appropriate for Ruby.
that it was already too late.
And in fact, our concern about the narcosis and the fact that the dog is very sensitive means that she can't do the surgery.
And instead, we had to go to a specialty doctor that could have all the necessary equipment to cope with a dog that wasn't dealing with anesthesia or something like that.
And so the cost went up to nine to $11,000.
And so on Friday of last week, we were basically told that yes, Ruby could come in and they would evaluate whether they needed to do it right away, which would be more expensive, or where they could wait till Tuesday and it might cost between $9,000 and $11,000 to remove the uterus of a dog.
And so the lucky thing is, is that the vet that we went to before we were told that she couldn't do it anymore, after we told her about whatever, and had this conversation about alternatives that were not appropriate for her, apparently, she gave us antibiotics.
my wife had already started treating Ruby with a internet concoction that was composed of honey and turmeric, vitamin C, and by my request, a couple times she got ivermectin, which I thought would be kind of funny to add into the story because
then everybody would blame her cure on ivermectin.
But I'm not going to tell you that she didn't get it, but she didn't get it as much as she got, of course, she got antibiotics just like Joe Rogan did.
And those antibiotics were two different kinds and she's still on them now.
And so attributing any of her recovery to ivermectin as opposed to
the raw honey, the turmeric, the vitamin C in large dose three times a day, and the antibiotics on two spectrums is kind of ridiculous, right?
But if you wanted to, and if I wanted to, I could tell you that I gave my dog ivermectin and she's fine now.
If I was being really honest, I would also have to tell you that I prayed a lot.
And I prayed a lot for very specific things.
Like if there was any way that they could spare my dog down here for a couple more years, I would really be grateful, even though I know I don't deserve it.
So there's no way for me to sit here and tell you that that wasn't the reason why my dog is in the garage sleeping very soundly right now.
So I just give you the list of things that we did to avoid the nine to $11,000 surgery that I guess they assume we have insurance for or something.
Because you can go on YouTube right now and look this, this pile Mitra up and you can look in the comments from a couple of years ago and you can find quotes, 800, $1,200.
Don't worry.
Those, those surgeries, you can find a vet that will do it for $2,000.
So we are entering a very dark world right now because it took us a very long time despite our best efforts to find anyone who understood the idea that a nine-year-old dog that's as healthy as a horse
might be worthy of alternative treatments.
And the crazy part about it is, is this biology apparently, according to our last vet, and now the one that we trust, you know, she's telling us what we want to hear.
So maybe we're biased, but the biology was not explained correctly.
So I'm just going to put a question mark up here because it's really like, they didn't tell us the biology of the dogs.
They just said, no, it's surgery and surgery will cost,
this much, right?
So what's the real biology?
Of course, the real biology is the open and closed PIOs, right?
That's what that is.
And open and closed PIOs is really interesting because again, the biology of dogs, I didn't understand it.
And so what's cool about this is that I learned something again, and that's what it is.
You just take responsibility for knowing and then you learn things all the time.
And so in taking responsibility for knowing and understanding the biology that, shit, where did that go?
Understanding the biology of my dog before I took her to a veterinarian so that I could protect her from ignorance, I still wasn't able to get where this vet got me, which I find got us, I should say, because it's me and Verla.
Because what's so important to understand and what I think is so cool about this, and I'm wasting time or I'm wasting a lot of people's time, but I don't care.
I'm trying to get back into the groove here.
The idea of informed consent is that this vet felt very comfortable, almost obliged to educate us about what choices we were making, what choices were available to us in the context of us being the people that we were.
So we had a real butting of heads at first because I've got a big mouth and that's a lot of the reasons why I don't make these phone calls because I very quickly can get into this, you know, attack mindset.
I'm just not very good right now from the last four and a half years or so.
And so one of the first things that this wonderful veterinarian said to us is that she hasn't had a rabies shot since she got off the plane.
We're like, no, but we're not here to talk about vaccines.
She's not getting any shots today.
And you could see that at first she was very much
not very happy with that.
We didn't make eye contact at that point.
And she just said, well, I'm just letting you know from a legal perspective that in Pennsylvania it's required.
And so if it's not in her records and you have a problem and somebody, you know, the police come, for example, you just need to know that could be a very big problem, but let's not, we're not going to talk about that now.
Indeed.
Now, I don't remember the exact words, but she said the legal aspects of it, but then didn't say that, so, you know, take your dog out of here, or I'm judging you now or anything like that, but she totally brought it back to baseline again, which I also felt.
And it was magical because I know for a fact, had I gone to any of these other places that Fearla had already been, this would have been an unmitigated disaster.
because this woman never felt under threat by our knowledge, never felt under threat or worried that we were somehow crazy people, but instead respected us from the very beginning, evidence being the incredibly healthy, well-groomed, beautiful nine-year-old dog that's laying calmly on the floor.
Anyway.
What I found very exciting was that the real biology of this is much more complicated than open and closed.
The other vets that we talked to told us that the danger was that she had an open pyometra and that if it closed,
then she would have a very big problem because a closed pyometra is an infection inside of a closed uterus that can't drain.
And so the pus fills the uterus until it eventually explodes or leaks into circulation.
And then you have sepsis and you die.
Not dissimilar to how I could have in theory died from the infection of my skin in my leg a few weeks ago, if I hadn't had antibiotics.
And so this,
pus-filled uterus is what a pyometra is.
And the reason why it occurs in dogs is more complicated than I knew.
And we had been and talked to multiple veterinarians who could not bring us to that understanding.
So what's really interesting is that this understanding is also what underlies
the ethical principle and argument for using alternative treatments to surgery.
So what's the real biology of a pyometra?
So if you, if you just think of a dog and the hind legs, okay.
And then you think of the uterus, the uterus is something that if you could draw it in
in shape it's just kind of like two horns and so if you were looking from above like this from from above from down then the two horns would be i believe something like this you know they're just they but they curve and because the uterus has you know some shape to it um then here's the opening out here and so this is not drawn right because there wouldn't be one on the bottom and one on the top they're like left and right
But if you look from above, it would look like this in the back of the dog, and then here would be the tail, right?
So this is the uterus, not drawn to scale or anything like that.
They're about a centimeter and a half across in a healthy dog in Ruby.
But because she has old dogs, she has some cysts.
And because she's never had a litter, the wall of the uterus is thicker than a younger dog.
And what's really interesting is that unlike your
your females, like we know best, our female humans, that shed their uterine wall every estrous cycle, every menstrual cycle.
The wall of the uterus, the uterine lining is shed.
And that's what the menstrual cycle is that from a man's perspective that we understand, right?
That's the reason why you need to clean up.
And that process doesn't happen in dogs.
It's something that I didn't know.
That process doesn't happen in dogs.
It only happens when they give birth.
And so a dog that has never given birth has had, and I don't know what the right
right layer of the uterus is.
But that uterus and uterine wall has been thickening and thickening every estrous cycle or every whatever cycle you would call it.
Again, I'm not a veterinarian.
I'm just an armchair biologist on the internet with a dog and with kids.
And this infection, okay, it fills the whole uterus with pus.
And if the cervix is closed, which it is closed all the time in a dog,
It's always closed.
The cervix only opens when you need to give birth.
And so, if you get an infection in here, because again, you're, you have
The cycle happens, you become more vulnerable to infection.
And also, apparently, our veterinarian told us that there is something called a uterine milk, which is produced, which is like a highly nutritious substance, which is very favorable to bacterial growth.
and also favorable to the deposition of any fertilized embryos or something like this.
And it was only very cursorily explained, but suffice it to say that during this process, the uterus itself becomes more vulnerable to infection because it's a really warm and juicy and nutritious place.
And usually that infection is actually infection of normal flora,
E. coli that are present in the vaginal canal of the dog.
And so again, I'm not going to draw all kinds of pictures here, but suffice it to say that I didn't know the anatomy of my dog and I didn't know where the cervix was and I didn't know what was on the outside and I didn't know where the urine ureter was and all this other stuff.
But suffice it to say that this infection here, if it happens and it cannot come out,
There's no way for it because there's no process by which this material comes out.
Then the propensity for this to become a very serious infection and go to sepsis is very, it's very high.
And so lots of dogs do die from this.
And a closed pyometra is something where nothing is, you don't see any pus coming out, but the dog just has an incredibly swollen uterus.
And then all these other symptoms, which can be vomiting and lots of drinking and panting and this kind of thing.
And then you just take them to the hospital.
the vet and you find this out.
Ours was that there was pus coming out.
So no more illustration other than that, but it was a quantity and we knew, and then we Googled it and we found out that it's an open pymetra.
What our new vet told us, our latest vet, the one that we trust the most because she seems to also understand the biology, is that for some dogs, the cervix can open.
And if it opens, then it will stay open until she goes through her next estrus.
So this can drain out.
And so the alternative treatment is to essentially use hormone to make her go through a kind of fake birth, if you will.
And so I started this morning injecting her with a hormone that will make her have diarrhea and make her salivate and make her vomit a little bit or, you know, be nauseated and also cause the uterine wall to shed as if she was going to give a birth.
This would be also the same process that you would use to get rid of a pregnancy in a dog that you didn't want.
And so over the next seven days, we're going to try and use this to expel the infection and expel the extra material that can come out.
And at the same time, she's going to be on antibiotics and this vet expects her to make it.
Now, she also expects that there's a fairly high chance that on the following estrous cycle, we could have the exact same problem again.
And so we may have to treat it again.
We may have to make this choice again, but nevertheless,
We are at the stage where somebody who gave us a swab with no ultrasound and no x-rays and no real lab tests told us that we had no alternative but an $11,000 surgery versus somebody who took the time to talk to us for an hour and 15 minutes, did a sonogram or a
Is that what you call it?
Ultrasound, excuse me, not sonogram, I guess it's ultrasound.
Ultrasound and showed us that it was only one side of the uterus, showed us that it wasn't crazy distended yet at all.
And that she expected Ruby to be fine this time around.
And so it's an extraordinary place to be now because of course we have all of these
this new level of understanding of how to care for our dog.
We have a new level of understanding of the biology of our dog, but more importantly, we found this little tiny example of at least 20 professionals that I'm sure are in that job because they love animals.
I'm sure they are in that job because they love biology that actually don't understand the biology of female dogs.
that don't understand the biology of open and closed pyometras, that don't understand the possibility that the idea that I had, which was flush this uterus out, is not something that this vet that we talked to and now trust thought was a good idea.
Even though she could tell us that she had a colleague actually that had done a
a paper about going in through the abdomen and perfusing the uterus by making a hole in it.
So you would, he would essentially go in through the abdomen and then make a hole right here and then perfuse out.
And I guess you had to do it on both horns then.
and then perfuse out with some kind of saline rinse.
And apparently that worked, but that would be almost as invasive as doing the surgery.
Well, not almost, but it would be similarly invasive because you'd still have to put the animal under, there would still be an incision and incisions in the uterus, and that would all have to go without infection.
But nonetheless, this was an alternative treatment because again, you could maybe save the uterus so that this animal could breed again.
And that's why we ended up going to this
this person because I had this crazy idea that why can't we just rinse it out?
Especially because this other vets told us that you can give her antibiotics, but the antibiotics won't go to her uterus anyway.
And so, then my first thing was, well, why can't we get them to the uterus?
I don't understand.
And so, anyway, when we were talking about this, she told me this story about a paper that one of her colleagues had done.
She had been in academia as a vet during COVID, and then that ended during COVID.
And although she didn't give me any details, it did feel like as though one of the reasons why she left is because she was just tired of the students and the lack of thinking.
And so she wasn't surprised with our story.
She was surprised with the 9 to $11,000 quote.
Her explanation of our dog and her biology was absolutely spectacular.
She had a very talented vet tech that was following her around and doing a lot of the work.
And when we left, I said, do yourself a favor and try to apprentice with this woman as long as they will physically allow you to do it.
Because she wasn't a young lady, you know, she was as old, older than me, I would guess.
And very, very, very, very, very knowledgeable.
And what I really liked a lot was when she figured out or when we, you know, kind of let her know that we were doing a lot of the reading and that we weren't complete monkeys.
She took it way farther than she needed to take it, and especially with regard to explaining
the hormone that we're using now and the dangers of it.
Like, you know, don't let your kids or yourself get poked by this needle, that kind of thing.
It's really crazy though, ladies and gentlemen.
It's absolutely crazy for me to humbly realize that, you know, what did I expect?
What did I really expect?
Did I think that I was going to go to a vet and I would get the informed consent that I can't get at my own pediatrician?
course, I shouldn't have expected that.
But that's kind of what I thought I would get.
I kind of thought that my wife would would, upon searching for an alternative vet, that she would find somebody who would understand that not every answer is a knife, not every every nail needs a hammer or whatever the right analogy is.
And wow, I mean, wow.
It just kept going up the quote for what was necessary just kept going up.
That was the only consistent
sort of trend.
And so the trick was here is that this is a hospital that deals with breeders.
So we saw a guy there that had a whole bucket full of Persian cat kittens, which was really hilarious.
Shout out to, what was his name?
Smushed Face.
Smushed Face
Persians I think it's what it is smushed face Persians.
I've never looked it up, but I'm Facebook apparently that's the dude They were really beautiful little cats and then there was also a lady that was bringing her new
new puppy Dobermans in there.
And so the reason why we went there, long story short, is because I had this idea that, you know, why can't we irrigate, you know, and I don't want to do it myself.
Maybe we can find somebody who will do it.
And so this vet was Reproductive Services, and so Phila kind of called and said, hey, we got this
female and you know this is our story this is why we don't want to put her under the knife and we saw that you guys do this would do you have any could you help us and they just made an appointment an hour and a half later with this woman we were leaving feeling like a quadzillion dollars and it was because like the old adage goes you better have a mechanic you better have a lawyer you better have a doctor and if you've got a
giant breed dog you better darn well be sure to have a vet you trust because otherwise on Friday already you know she could have been 50% likely dead on the table or a few days later from infection
And we would have been down, you know, 10 grand or something like that, or in the debt, 10 grand.
I mean, what kind of, what kind of choice is that to offer people?
And, and I don't think it's actually very realistic from the perspective of, you know, what I can tell what I know.
It's just extraordinary, you know, this, this.
this very much is in sync with this idea that you can't expect informed consent from your pediatrician, you can't expect informed consent from your vet anymore.
It is actually imperative that all of us take responsibility for understanding before we seek expert advice, before we seek help.
And that is what I think right now makes books
and primary literature and downloading things and printing things.
Very, very, very important.
Because the best way to educate yourself is to grab a book and read it.
Go outside in the sun and read.
Wake up in the morning, go out on the porch and read.
None of us are doing it anymore.
Well, I am, but none of us are doing it anymore.
I have a very strict regiment of
engaging with X for fun and for prodding to make sure that people have to keep working.
And then after that, I'm really trying very hard to get into a ridiculously good habit of being present regularly here.
But, you know, if you're a dog owner, you know what we were going through this weekend, you know what we were looking at, because everybody was telling us that it was time and it happened to happen right now.
And if the longer you wait, the more likely it was to get very, very, very dangerous.
And she was sick, you know, I mean, before she started taking the antibiotics and honey and turmeric and vitamin C and ivermectin, she was very sick and her nose was hot.
Her ears were hot and she was huffing and, you know, wobbly and the whole thing.
And now when V comes home from her class, Ruby will stand up and run out there and be as waggy as she was a year ago.
So it's really extraordinary the luck that we've had, that my prayers were answered in the form of either a combination of
natural antibiotics, and probiotics, and pharmaceuticals, and whatever, and prayer.
That's all I can really tell you.
So keeping this going, the other thing that I wanted to do was look at this.
Let me see if this works.
Look at this video and the associated paper with this.
switching gears here, I will... this would be this one, right?
Yeah.
I will say that on TWIV a couple days ago, they covered this article, which is an article about norovirus.
If you're not familiar with norovirus, norovirus is a virus that they apparently find in the guts of children.
And if we go down here, we can read that human noroviruses are the leading cause of
I see you over there.
Leading global cause of childhood diarrhea and acute gastroenteritis in all age groups attributed to a remarkable 685 million cases and the deaths of 50 to 200,000 young children each year.
Those are some pretty extraordinary stats from a virus that essentially we don't even talk about before very, very, very recently.
I heard about it a little bit when we were living in Norway, but only in the context of the daycare centers.
There were a couple times they talked about how norovirus was going around the daycare centers.
I have the feeling that this might be... Hey!
Come here, Bebert!
Hey!
Come and say fajir.
Hello, babe.
How are you?
Careful, don't trip on those.
Hello, babe.
This is the big, big happy dog.
Here she is.
Coming in here.
Hutso, babe.
I'm glad you came in here.
Wanted to say hi, but I didn't want to call you in here, because you know you were sleeping and stuff.
Yeah.
Hutka down, babe.
That's her.
Oh, this feels good, huh?
Ja, is he good?
Don't trip over the books.
Sorry, honey
Yes, so what was I saying?
Here we go.
So anyway, norovirus.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, that's right.
What I want to watch is the idea of what's going on here.
Now remember, we're going to go all the way back.
This is Biology 101, right?
So I want to recall again, if you don't mind, the idea that in Biology 101, which I've been trying to introduce over the last three programs,
They typically introduce biology in terms of different layers of analysis, different levels of analysis.
And they might go from genes, to RNA, to protein, to cells, to tissue, to organs, to organism, to population, ecosystems, biosphere.
And then what I tried to explain over the last couple of days was that reductionist science and the strategy of using reductionist
a strategy of a reductionism has propelled us into a level of false understanding that is based on selecting a few variables from a couple different levels of analysis and then telling a story about them.
And what I tried to say to you is that I'm a PhD.
I did my postdoc and stuff in the mouse and in rats.
in the brain on channels.
And so that was my thing.
I was going to tell stories about the brain of mice and channels.
So in SK channels, glutamate channels, GABA channels, whatever it was that I was going to talk about, that would have been my shtick for the remainder of my career, combining questions in a mouse brain about channels.
and then trying to go all the way back to talk about how organisms work and how disease works and how dysregulation of the brain leads to disease or leads to Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or any of these things, right?
That's the idea.
Maybe even which channels involved in autism could be asked simply by taking a mouse, saying you're studying its brain and looking at a channel that might be involved in autism because its gene has been associated with autism.
And so I tried to use an analogy of the exhaust of an automobile and correlating the heavy metal content or the temperature with the speed of the car.
And you could be a biologist for a long time making those correlations and teach students how to do it and get grants and et cetera.
And the same basic thing is done with the irreducible complexity of our own biology through a reductionist methodology.
where a couple variables from a couple different levels of complexity are chosen and then monitored, and then correlation with outcome is misconstrued as understanding, misconstrued as insight.
And so one of the things that is often missing from these investigations is not only the limitation of this reductionist
strategy, but also the limitation of this one-dimensional description of the layers of complexity, because actually the layers of complexity change in their physical manifestation.
The physics of them change as we move through these different, you know, what are basically arbitrary divisions in complexity or arbitrary divisions in analysis are not
They're not equivalent physics in terms of size and in terms of time and in terms of scale.
Which means what?
You can't just be a biologist.
You must also be a chemist.
You must also be a physicist, at least insofar as understanding the limitations on biology placed on it by physics, the limitations of biology placed on it by chemistry.
One must have these prerequisite understandings
before you can usefully pursue even a rudimentary appreciation of this irreducible complexity.
And the trick of Biology 101 at universities around the world right now is to suggest to the students, to make the students accept the idea that this reductionist selection, this reductionist philosophy has resulted in the progress
of mankind's understanding of himself.
That's wrong.
Ruby, you're starting to do laps around here.
I don't know what's going on.
What's happening here?
Why are you going back and forth all the time?
You're starting to seem like you're very healthy.
I don't know what's going on.
You're sleeping all the time.
Now you're freaking out, coming in here, bothering me.
I'm trying to do some work.
I can't do work if there's going to be some great big huff and puff bat dog coming in here all the time bothering me.
You big troublemaker.
Yeah, you.
One of the very interesting side effects of the drug that I gave her today, the hormone that I gave her today, is apparently when she has puppies, if she were to have had puppies in this life, she would have dug a hole for them.
Because I've never seen her dig like she dug this morning after that first injection.
And I guess it's only going to get worse because the dose is supposed to ramp up over the next few days.
Huh?
Yeah, the third day is supposed to be the worst.
So you have another injection tonight at seven o'clock, and then a little more tomorrow twice, and then a little more on Wednesday twice, and then it goes down again.
So if we have a bad day, it's going to be Wednesday, huh?
Yeah.
Hutzo, babe.
Hutzo.
Yeah?
Don't trip over the books.
So yes, what I'm trying to express here is the idea that this separation
this compartmentalization of our understanding that I've...
you know, become aware of in myself in biology is compounded by the idea that comparatively few people enter biology with the requisite knowledge to appreciate that this is really an exercise in reverence.
It's not an exercise in dominance or understanding or revelation.
This is really a, it should be a humbling exercise in complexity appreciation.
And if you have the requisite physics and chemistry, I think it's natural for biology to do that.
And then it's natural to see the very necessary limitations on our ability to understand anything here when we can only reasonably hold on to a few handles at a time.
Make sure you're not going in the street, Ruby.
That's the problem.
Now that she's healthy again, I have to pay more attention because she could walk across the street right now just to say hi to somebody.
Okay, so what I want to do as an exercise here in the second part of the stream is to look at a TWiV episode, which, as I said, is discussing this paper.
Now, what this paper tells you is crazy.
What this paper tells you is something about bile acids.
and the fact that bile acids and them being altered by the microbiome can change the relative infectivity of a virus and your ability to fight it or resist its infection.
And so essentially, they're going to describe a relatively new set of gears that we didn't know existed before, as if it has no consequence.
as if it has no consequence to their ever increasing appreciation for the irreducible complexity of immunology.
Instead, before this stream, vaccines worked.
Five years ago, vaccines worked.
50 years ago, vaccines worked.
And that truth remains constant, irrespective of what we learn.
Irrespective of how much more understanding and appreciation we get for this, it doesn't matter.
To them, it doesn't matter because vaccines work, antibodies are a correlate of immunity, and those truths are going to stay true no matter how complex the biology ever gets.
Doesn't matter how many gears they find.
It doesn't matter if they open the watch and out falls a whole army of miniature robots.
Doesn't matter.
They still are convinced that what they knew about the watch before they opened it is still true.
Essentially, they've told you that it doesn't matter how much sand you put in this watch, it'll still run fine.
And if the watch stops after you've put some sand in it, it has nothing to do with the sand that you put in there.
And even if they opened this watch and found out that what they thought was in there is not in there, it's something completely different, they would still tell you that the sand doesn't do anything to how the watch works.
And we are going to witness in real time a video where these virologists that have been unequivocally advocating for the vaccine schedule across the board all the time, every week,
for four and a half years of the existing plandemic, but also in place early enough so that Vincent Racaniello could have and did host Peter Daszak for a discussion about zoonosis before the pandemic.
And so listen carefully, I'm not going to play the whole thing, but I do have it queued up in the right place, where they will
where they will show us this and you will be amazed at what these people are capable of.
It's really very extraordinary.
So this, I think, is where they start.
And there actually is a little comment here where you can see some dismay because they're going to say that somewhere in the world they're rolling out an oral polio vaccine.
from these people perspective, the oral polio vaccine is just dumb and that everybody should be injecting.
And so I won't put that into context.
I won't talk about that biology today, but I just want you to know that I think that's where this is queued up.
There's a brief two minute thing about the polio vaccine.
And this guy down here on the bottom is kind of like, oh no, oral polio.
Why aren't these people smarter?
And then they go on to the norovirus paper.
Oops, that's this one.
So this just in, CNN reports Israel agrees to pause fighting Gaza for polio vaccination.
That's good.
Yeah, this is very good.
Humanitarian reasons.
Maybe.
It would be nice if they had dealt with some of the other issues that we had mentioned with some of the other infectious diseases and everything else.
So 640,000 children are going to be immunized and apparently they're using OPV.
NOPV2.
So, you know, it's not ideal, but that's what they're going to do.
Okay.
Now, we have a paper that taught me more than I ever knew about bile acids in breast milk.
Here we go.
I know.
I read this paper, and if I had had a chance, I would have spent some time with Steph Langel.
Yes.
I'm sure she could have provided a lot more insight.
Actually, it's a mammoth study and very well written.
When I started out, I know nothing about any of this stuff.
Well, I know a little bit about noroviruses.
But when I started out, I thought, I looked at the graphical abstract and I thought, this is going to be tough.
But I got a little ways into it and I kind of got the drift.
and it was good.
So this is cell health and microbe.
Metabolic immaturity and breast milk bile acid metabolites are central determinants of heightened newborn vulnerability to norovirus diarrhea.
We have three co-first authors, Amy Piper, Joyce Morales-Aparicio, Zhang Zhang Hu, and a senior author, a former colleague of Rich's at the University of Florida Gainesville, Stephanie Karst, and our
immune co-hosts.
Steph Langell is on this paper as well.
We have people from UF Gainesville, UNC, Chapel Hill, University of Illinois, Case Western Reserve, the Jesse Brown VA in Chicago, and Emory.
So it's not really about the biology at all, of course, and that's what this is all about too.
I was in that system.
I know exactly what's it about, the position of your authorship
in that line matters in those circles.
And so just getting mentioned as a co-author, getting mentioned as a co-first author, these are all important for keeping those people locked in.
Because that's the game they're currently playing.
So this is maximum dopamine for all those people.
Getting mentioned on TWIV, would it be the equivalent, I guess, of getting mentioned on JC on a Bike in neurobiology back in 2020.
Stop lying!
So I think this is going to be very interesting because again, Vincent Racaniello is about to say that he knows nothing about bile acids, knew nothing about breast milk, apparently knows nothing.
about a whole interaction between bile and digestion and the microbiome and taurine and creatine.
And it's like, wait, what?
And who?
And I guess I just didn't know that all these gears were there.
I guess I just didn't know.
Isn't that crazy?
But then he'll go right back to assuming that all the biology, or right back to telling you that all the biology that he has told you up until now is 100% right.
He's 100% right about everything to do with viruses.
because he knows nothing about digestion or the microbiome or bile or anything like that.
And there are all kinds of viruses in the gut.
I think actually poliovirus is also in the gut, but he knows nothing about bile and knows nothing about lipid absorption and nothing.
Nothing about how bio and its products are altered by the microbiome.
Knows nothing.
But he's supposed to be an expert on polio.
He's the guy who figured out how to make an infectious clone of the polio virus.
You know, a synthetic construct you could make mass quantities of.
Him and David Baltimore are the people that figured that out.
That's what we're talking about here.
Hold on one second.
Oh, she's home.
Mom is home.
So the dog is running around.
Here we go.
Oops, that's this one.
School of Medicine.
So here's the summary, the executive summary.
Neuroviruses are small
icosahedral plus-strand RNA viruses constructed similar to poliovirus, a nice protein shell with a plus-strand RNA inside.
Non-envelope, tough as nails.
Tough as nails.
You just, you know, they pass through your intestinal tract.
You eat them and they go into your intestine, they cause diarrhea, and then they're shed in copious amounts, and that's how...
Other people get them and they cause vomiting and diarrhea.
So it sounds like... In newborns, they're more... It would sound like to me that the primary thing that's weird is that the way that you get norovirus is that you get other people's poop in your mouth.
Isn't that what it sounds like?
If they replicate in your gut, then how do they get out?
It sounds a lot like polio.
You know, you just have to stop getting other people's poop in your mouth.
which is why sanitation, water treatment were so vital to understanding what happened with polio.
That's why also DDT is an interesting story.
And I think we can figure out a lot if we started to think about placebo as being useful in all contexts, all the time.
If you want to create an illusion of something, placebo would be one of the best ways to do it.
Let's say, for example, you wanted to argue that malaria was building up a resistance to something.
Maybe you could just, you know, not put that something out there anymore.
Because one of the things they told us, the reasons why they stopped using DDT was because insects were building up a tolerance, a resistance to it, a resistance to a chemical.
Like if you treated ponds with gasoline, that there would become gasoline resistant mosquito larvae.
That's the essential argument.
The DDT, a poison like DDT, you can actually get resistant mosquitoes to it.
Well, if you wanted to make an argument that something that was working wasn't working anymore, maybe one of the ways to do it would be to stop using it.
What I'm only suggesting is that this is a narrative that no one has ever considered.
And it's always a narrative that could be used against us from a national security perspective.
If you wanted people to believe that you had made a nuclear weapon and dropped it, would you need to drop a nuclear bomb?
Really ask yourself, would you need to?
Independent of whether you actually could make one, would you really need to drop one to convince somebody that you had if you had an illusion of consensus that would lie about it?
Wittingly or unwittingly, no, you wouldn't need to.
You could make a gigantic bomb, a regular gigantic bomb, nobody knows,
what 10,000 tons of TNT looks like.
Nobody knows what a great big hydrogen bomb or a great big whatever neutron bomb looks like.
And so you make a great big fire bomb and you put some radioactive material in it and you claim that it was a nuclear bomb.
I'm not suggesting that I know.
What I'm suggesting to you is, is that in almost all cases,
There is a very parsimonious and easy way where normal physics, normal chemistry, and lying could be used to create something that mankind would have a real hard time creating with physics and chemistry.
We have a current example right now of gain-of-function research and an RNA pandemic where a biology that I believe is impossible is being
coercively taught to our children through media and through social media and through our own naivety because these people have agreed to lie about the potential that RNA can have if it is stitched together in the right way by the right people with the right motives.
Instead of these people explaining to you that the main danger is that we can make kilograms of this stuff using all of the standard equipment that pharmaceuticals use to make biologics.
And so we could start transfecting and transforming humans all around the world and tell everybody it was virology and even use the wonderful bonus that there's these sequences around and then tell everybody openly what sequences we're tracking.
So we're really in a situation now where this breakthrough threshold of understanding can occur.
And it can occur because these people are so trapped.
These people are so trapped by a lifetime in exactly the same way that I was trapped by a lifetime of dedication to these small, focused questions that, as William Briggs would point out in his course, are an assumption based on an assumption based on an assumption.
And then here's where you're testing.
And so these people with the no virus thing, they're not wrong about isolation.
They're not wrong about purification.
I think they're wrong about transfection and transformation.
And I think they're ignoring it on purpose.
And I don't understand why.
Because transformation and transfection are the way that the illusion of virology is created.
Yes, the false isolation and the false purification are also part of it.
But if you don't take that to the necessary conclusion that because RNA can't pandemic, because RNA is only detected as a shadow in nature, and that these people are lying about what they find in bat caves and what they find in their laboratories, but the only real thing they can do is produce quantities of pure DNA and pure RNA that they can then study as a transformation or a transfection product or result,
And we don't acknowledge that part, we just focus on the no virus part.
We are playing the same game that these people play.
When they talk about how, I didn't know anything about bio, and I didn't know anything about bio acids, and all this stuff is new to me, but that doesn't matter.
I still understand immunology well enough to know that vaccines work, and they work as well as airplanes can fly and wheels can roll.
Even though I don't know jack about the microbiome.
I don't know jack.
I haven't even thought about the idea that if there's a microbiome that interacts with us, then what about all the bacteriophages that interact with our microbiome?
And how would we differentiate between the effects of a bacteriophage moving through our microbiome and expressing a protein that our body reacts to versus a viral protein or a bacterial protein?
How do we tell the difference?
These people just assume that everything that they know, assume, assume, assume, assume, assume, assume, those are all true.
And so now we've got to add this new data that I know to the assumptions that I already are not willing to question.
And so instead of revising the model of the world that they have with regard to RNA pandemics and RNA viruses and positive stranded viruses and negative stranded viruses, once they found out that there was a RNA dependent RNA polymerase in our own cells and say, well, then maybe we're wrong about these things.
And maybe these signals, the endogenous, you know, homolog of these signals is more important than we ever imagined.
They don't say any of it.
They can't get there because they are as trapped as I was and as trapped as all the other biologists are who still haven't realized that transfection and transformation in healthy humans was always criminally negligent from the very beginning and that they themselves could have known and spoke out and saved potentially thousands if not millions of lives around the world had the rollout effectively been stopped by any one of us
that spoke up, but it wasn't because there were too few speaking up.
And more importantly, there are still too few today speaking up with the right words, with the right argument that shows that both sides are guilty, that both sides have people that have been collaborating to make sure we don't get out.
And that's why I've been so harsh on Robert Malone and Meryl Nass and CHD and these people who, despite years of interacting with me, have still not come to realize that the most important thing that nobody understands is that we can make kilograms of DNA and kilograms of RNA.
We can stitch it together and we can put it anywhere we want to and claim to have found it.
And that if any of those proteins were bioactive, immunogenic, that the symptomology created by that transformation or that transfection could be misconstrued as the presence of a virus simply because we have people that are willing to say that a spike protein is a coronavirus, that an end protein is a coronavirus, or that the PCR detected equivalent is a coronavirus.
And yes, the no virus people are wrong about that.
I mean, right about that, that that's a lie.
The no-virus people also seem to be incapable of saying that all virology that has any reproducibility starts with synthetic DNA and RNA.
Like the SARS Urbani strain.
That's the real place they need to take the tree down.
But they don't.
They take it down with the semantics, with the isolation and the purification, which means they're still essentially playing in the same arena of magic because the whole thing is an enchantment of words.
And the uniform and universal agreement to use those words and agree that sometimes they don't make sense, but we use those words anyway, like vaccine, like immunize, like disease, like virus,
Let's keep going because this is really interesting when he actually says it.
Severe.
So people want to know why.
In this paper, they show that the metabolic immaturity of newborns and the presence of bile acids in breast milk
are some reasons why newborns are more vulnerable.
Now, we're talking about mice here mainly, but they do try and extend it to humans whenever they can because there are some data in humans that are sort of congruent with what they find in mice.
So, the idea would be
Maybe you could, and they do this experimentally.
They target maternal and neonatal bile acid metabolism.
They can protect newborns from a norovirus disease.
So you're gonna learn a lot about bile acids and what they do and a little bit about breast milk, which we all say is great and is great, but there's one negative here, as you will see, and it can make, at least in mice, norovirus disease worse.
Maybe in a community where there is a... In mice!
Here we go!
So in mice, breast milk can make norovirus infection work.
Stop lying!
Here we go.
Terrible norovirus epidemic.
You could also use that to help... That's right.
And so just to bring this home for those of you
who are unfamiliar with this, this is the cruise ship virus.
And even if you've never been on a cruise, if you've stayed up all night throwing up with your kids, you've had this disease.
Everybody gets this eventually.
It's the most common now that rotavirus
is basically suppressed with vaccination.
It is the most common cause of gastroenteritis, right?
Known among the cognoscenti as the two bucket disease.
So these are all just nonsense.
He's regurgitating the introduction of the paper, claiming that it's a common thing known now, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then he gives credit to Paul Offit for getting rid of rotavirus.
It is
Nothing short of extraordinary, of course.
Remember, the reason why we're doing this is because we want to get back to this idea that these people are kind of picking and choosing a couple layers of analysis.
In this case, we're going to talk about mice.
And we're going to talk about the gut microbiome as it relates to bile acids.
And we're going to measure a couple of those.
That's it.
Nothing more.
It's all going to be proxies.
And we don't know, you know, this is a mouse model of human disease.
It's really, really extraordinary what's happening here.
Okay.
I'm thinking of various humorous posters around Stephanie's lab saying, no two-bucket disease here.
So there's no vaccine.
There are vaccines being worked on, but we don't have one yet.
We don't have antivirals.
So if someone is vomiting with diarrhea, you have to keep them hydrated.
And you can't just give them water, right, because they're losing electrolytes.
So you have to do like Pedialyte or something like that.
And, you know, in some many countries it's possible, but in many countries it's not.
So babies die.
There are 685 million cases a year.
Unbelievable.
50,000 to 200,000 deaths in young children every year.
So this is a big problem.
Now, we know that the gut microbiome is important in regulating enteric virus infections of all sorts.
And in particular, so it's not just the bacteria, but it's their metabolites that do this.
And that's what we're going to talk about in part in this paper.
So neuroviruses bind a specific metabolite called a bile acid.
Okay, here we go.
I don't know anything about ballast, but I'm going to tell you what the authors say.
Well, I also think that people should be aware that that's relatively new information.
You know, I think 2018 is the earliest paper they cite about that.
For a long time, this was something that was not really known.
And there are some difficulties working with norovirus in the lab that contribute to that.
And so, you can also realize that we're just now figuring out what to do about this two-bucket disease.
Yeah, as a matter of fact, let me elaborate a little bit on this model.
Brianne triggered this.
You cannot grow the human virus in the laboratory.
What we know about the human virus and its infection
was learned by infecting volunteers with the virus.
So, this mouse model is not, it's cool.
in that it's not like, ordinarily when we talk about mouse models, we're talking about taking a human virus or a virus from some other animal and sticking it in a mouse.
No, this is a mouse norovirus.
So it's what I would call a, well, I don't know what to call it, but it's the host and the virus are
It's a natural virus of this host of mice.
Okay, and so he's not even really saying it a very Very coyly in the sense of you know, it's a mouse model.
This is a mouse gut virus We don't even they're not even gonna bother to differentiate where the virus replicates.
They don't care The assumption is it replicates in the mouse?
It could be a bacteriophage for all they know It's very tough
It's the cruise ship virus.
And this is a mouse model of it.
So there is a mouse equivalent virus.
And the idea is that this is specific for mice.
This is a mouse specific homologue of our own system.
And they do that a lot.
You know what else they did it a lot with?
Yeast.
Like when they found mechanisms in yeast that caused cell division or reorganization of the DNA.
And then they looked for homologs of those genes in humans and found them.
Then they portrayed that as, look, see, we understand cell division in yeast and the same mechanisms are used in you.
And so, you know, it's basically your yeast only stuck together.
There were Nobel prizes given away for that.
In fact, the idea of prions is almost exclusively based on yeast biology and this idea that the homologue of what's happening in yeast is prions in humans.
And so make no mistake about it, ladies and gentlemen, these people are trapped inside of this layer upon layer upon layer of assumption which starts, actually starts here at the genes to proteins
to cells, to tissues, and this assumption that right down here at the bottom is all you need to know.
And that if this can be correlated with something up here, then you understand the something up here because you understand that it's related to this.
These are considered first causes, even though they might just be exhaust or the heavy metal content of the exhaust of the car.
Now, obviously, I don't think that that's the case.
But what I'm trying to suggest is that the correlation between observations at this level and observations at this level have been misconstrued as high-fidelity understanding that makes us only about 10 years away from ending disease and being able to upload our consciousness.
And those are lies.
that Elon Musk tells, that Kurtzweiler tells, that Fauci tells, that Daisak tells, that Robert Malone tells.
And Robert Malone has been telling himself lies like that since he trained with these people in the retrovirus age, trained with people like Murray Gardner and
and Gallo and Baltimore, all the same people that are responsible for defining virology as outside of us, hiding exosomal communication, the small packet genetic communication that occurs locally in the brain and probably systemically between the gut and the brain and between the immune system and all healthy and diseased tissues.
And that's probably why that dude that was taking like $50,000 a month from the Communist Party in China from Harvard was working on nanosignaling, nanotechnology that could read nanosignals.
Because the only way to usefully probe what's going on inside of our bodies at this packet level of communication genetically with RNA and DNA would be able to be able to kind of sample it all in real time.
not very dissimilar to the new technology that's going rampant right now, the nanopore sequencing, where we don't need to use PCR with known amplicons and known primers to amplify a known sequence in order to sequence something anymore.
In theory, we can just dump all the sequences through and see what comes out the other end in the reader.
The trouble is these high throughput, high fidelity sequencing technologies have never been applied to virology because if they were, then the infectious cycle and the illusion that gets created when they use transformation and transfection and cell culture to create the illusion of virology, that illusion would be broken if they actually applied with any integrity, these sequencing technologies to probe what's happening.
Let me give you an example.
Imagine that these intrepid biologists decided that they really wanted to investigate the fidelity of the infectious cycle in an experiment like that avian flu enriching bullshit in ferrets.
They did that in the Netherlands, where supposedly a ferret in one cage gave a sickness to the ferret in the next cage, and by the time they got to the 12th ferret, the avian flu was aerosolized and dangerous or some shit.
Now, the funny thing is, is that they never bothered to characterize the changes that happened in that virus, even though they knew that most likely if it's going to be aerosolized and there are certain expectations, what would change?
What proteins changed?
What sequence changed that allowed it to go from being not so aerosolized to aerosolized or not so deadly to deadly or not so specific for ferrets for specific for ferrets.
And why don't we have a sequence from every animal seeing as now we can sequence these things in real time using nanopore sequencing where we don't need primers and we don't need to know what we're looking for.
We can just throw it all through.
Why haven't we looked at the spike protein and how it's changed and how the physiology of it would change?
If Robert Malone is able to make an x-ray crystallography model of any protein that he wants to so that he can screen the entire catalog of FDA pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals against that model, then why can't we make a model of the spike protein so we can see how it's changing and whether or not these HIV inserts are still there or not?
Whether they're still causing extra damage or not?
Why don't we use the EpiVax technology that was developed by Robert Malone and the people at EpiVax to look at the spike protein, to look for epitopes that might be dangerous or immunogenic in particular.
Why is it that all of these technologies exist and they can be on Robert Malone's resume, but they never need to be talked about when he's in front of a camera, when somebody could ask him a useful question, when somebody is going to write a book.
Sometimes this gets a little pushback because there are some differences between, or some people talk of differences between the disease in mice and the human disease.
There's no difference.
There are a number of different strains and they focus on a strain here that I think is very closely mimics the human disease.
Right, so we're talking about marine norovirus here.
Yes, mouse norovirus.
I mean, when you interview the mice, they have the same complaints that people with norovirus have, so I guess it pretty well mimics the disease.
All right, so they bind bile acids.
So let's talk a little bit about bile acids.
They're made in the liver from cholesterol, and then they're joined to either taurine or glycine, and then we call them conjugated primary bile acids.
So he's learning biology for the first time.
Bile acids are made in the liver, stored in the bile ducts, and secreted when needed.
They have a lot to do with the absorption or lack of absorption of vitamin A. You can find a nutritionist on X that's Garrett, somebody or other that talks a lot about vitamin A toxicity and the idea that at one point in time, we may have been short vitamin A, but now they put it in so much food, they put it in everywhere that it's become to the point where, you know, you can get toxic from it.
And in fact, his argument is, is that, you know, vitamin A is in pretty good quantity in your liver.
So what do we need it more for?
There's no shortage if it's available in the liver all the time.
Now, I don't know to what extent he's right about this, but a lot of what I read from him seems very good.
What I find very interesting is what they just said here.
I'm going to go back so you can hear it one more time and then I'll play it.
And then they're joined to either taurine or glycine.
So either joined to taurine or glycine.
I think I said creatine.
Sorry about that.
So taurine or glycine.
Taurine is a very,
abundant component in
in Red Bull.
So I find myself wondering, because in biology and in our own pattern integrity, there are nearly countless examples of feedback mechanisms by which the presence of one component of that mechanism regulates the metabolism of another so that the right concentrations are present all the time.
And so I find myself wondering if you're drinking a lot of Red Bull and taking in a lot of taurine, if that affects anything about how
Bile production and nutrient absorption would change.
And how that would affect bile secretion and the interaction of these bile acids with your microbiome.
Listen again as, listen as he continues to explain his rudimentary understanding that he learned a couple days ago.
and then we call them conjugated primary bile acids.
They're stored in the gallbladder, which many of you have lost years ago, right?
And then when you eat,
the bile acids come out of your gallbladder into the duodenum to help with digestion.
In particular, help with digestion with fatty stuff.
Fatty stuff.
Which is why if you lost your gallbladder and you go out and have a Big Mac, you might have trouble shortly down the road.
Right.
So once, so do you feel like you have informed consent now?
I kind of feel like I'm at a standard vet office at this stage.
They didn't explain Jack mostly because they don't get it either.
They freely admit they're just kind of reading a description.
They don't know.
And don't forget, it helps you digest fatty stuff.
So the next time you eat a big Mac, you better hope you have a gallbladder.
Once the bile acids, these conjugated primary bile acids, get into the intestinal lumen, the bacteria there, your microbiome, metabolize them into unconjugated primary and secondary bile acids.
They make what are called microbial conjugated bile acids, and these are reabsorbed, but most of these are reabsorbed across the intestinal epithelium and go back to the liver.
Something sounds familiar here.
You're going to recycle them, right?
And this is called the anterohepatic circulation.
You go back in the liver, and then, of course, it's going to be reconjugated to taurine or glycine and stored in the- So are taurine and glycine being excreted then?
gene conjugated to the bile acid, the bile acid goes to the microbiome, the microbiome unconjugates them, and then they're reabsorbed?
Do they reabsorb and bring something else with them?
Is it a feedback loop?
Could extra taurine in your gut change that?
I wouldn't be surprised if one or more of these people actually drank Red Bull.
gallbladder.
So it's recycled, right?
And this transport is mediated by a transporter in the intestine.
It's called the apical sodium dependent bile acid transporter.
That's going to play a role in this story as well.
The paper is open access.
It's funny that you mentioned that.
And it's funny that you mentioned that in the chat, because I've been thinking about this a lot.
If vitamin A were a mystery scam, what would it be?
And in the history of measles, that's what I've
discovered what Yong In-sef, I don't know what your real name is there, but the one in green, he says Gates loves vitamin A, that's all you need to know.
It would be interesting to think of the idea that vitamin A in detriment
can cause a rise in disease because of immune weakness or whatever.
And vitamin A in abundance can be toxic.
Now, the only question is whether there is any place or any population where you have a deficiency.
And in history, at least, we were told that we did.
And one of the things that you needed to add vitamin A for was measles.
So it's a good chat
Graphical abstract, once you sort of get a little bit of a grip on this, is quite good.
I found myself referring back to it all the time to make sure I was still on the right road.
Yes.
So the idea is that these bile acids are made by the liver, help us with digestion.
However, the microbes in our GI tract can change them, but we can recycle them and change them back.
Right.
It's been shown that interaction with conjugated bio- And she says that we can recycle them and change them back and doesn't understand.
So she seems to make it feel like that's an antagonistic relationship between the microbiome that unconjugates these bile acids and then we have to take them back in and re-conjugate them.
And so it's like a push and pull between two antagonists.
She doesn't even imagine that it could be a symbiotic thing.
a feedback between our microbiome and our liver to make sure that we continue to safely absorb lipid-based nutrients without absorbing any toxins or something like that.
I mean, it's weird because you can hear their
their portrayal of the interaction with the microbiome as non-symbiotic.
It's separate.
It's almost always potentially antagonistic, and that's a real fundamental flaw in their basic model.
Change them, but we can recycle them and change them back.
Right.
Now, it's been shown that interaction with conjugated bile acids
is proviral.
It helps virus replication for both human and marine noroviruses in vitro in cultured cells.
And there are a number of mechanisms in vitro viral action with conjugated bile acids is proviral.
It helps virus replication for both human and marine.
So conjugated bile acids, which we produce are proviral.
pro-norovirus infection.
So what he is actually going to tell you is that our interaction with our microbiome actually protects us from what they call a norovirus infection.
And so they are now adding a whole nother layer to the enterovirus infection model.
that has to do with the chemical interaction of bile acids and the microbiome, generalizing across that microbiome as if it's just one bacterial with one enzyme that does this.
That it's one bacteria with one protein on the outside that we just ignore some very simplistic model, rather than finally acknowledging that, you know, I've been a
I've been a polio vaccine and polio virus expert since I can remember, and I never thought for even a second about the gut microbiome and the fact that the polio virus might interact with the gut microbiome.
It's never even, I never even, it never even dawned on me, but instead he's completely arrogant.
I don't know anything about bile acids, but I'm going to tell you what the authors wrote.
And even though I don't know anything about bio-acids, I know everything about the watch still.
I'm still the foremost authority on vaccines going back to polio.
I'm still Earth's virology professor, even so confident in his position as an authority figure on this biology.
that he is free, absolutely free to admit that he doesn't know jack shit about bile acids or their role in digestion or immunity or the selectivity of the gut.
Nothing.
He knows nothing about it.
But now he's going to tell you that these authors have discovered that it's central to norovirus infection, but that doesn't matter to me.
I just studied polioviruses and enteroviruses, but I don't care that it's only since 2018 that we've known anything or cared at all about whether or not there are microbiomas involved in this biology at all.
noroviruses in vitro in cultured cells.
And there are a number of mechanisms, but one of them, certain bile acids can inhibit infection in an interferon-dependent manner.
So that's one of the mechanisms.
Interferon-dependent manner, but interferon is produced by cells.
He's not gonna tell us where the interferon comes from.
The authors might not have even looked.
Remember, this is a reductionist analysis where they're gonna take a mouse model, and they're gonna take a couple proxy measurements of the virus being there in the PCR or some bullshit like that.
And then they're also gonna look at the bile acids and say that they can measure them or not, and they can add them back or not.
And adding them back causes a change in the other variable, and so then they must be related.
Just like when the car goes faster, there's more heavy metals in the exhaust, so they must be related.
The exhaust must be an indicator of how fast the car is going, just like this.
It's the same nonsense.
This signal indicates that signal is real.
And it is the exact same kind of pseudo logic that William Briggs has been talking about in his uncertainty class, but in real terms.
And the real terms are chosen using a reductionist analogy for analysis, or a reductionist strategy for analysis.
And this process seems to occur for different viruses, and so it's maybe a general principle.
It may be a general principle that he doesn't know, didn't know existed before right now.
in this stream, but he's Earth's virology professor.
Earth's expert on oral polio vaccine versus intramuscular injected polio vaccine.
He is the expert.
He calls himself Earth's virology professor.
The role of bile acids and the microbiome in conjugation and unconjugation, reconjugation of bile acids
could be critical and generally very important in understanding all enteroviruses, but who gives a shit, because I've been the expert for 40 years already.
This doesn't change anything for him, even if it's a whole nother layer of complexity, or maybe four.
Created bile acids promote neurovirus infection,
And the ones that are generated by microbes, the ones that they deconjugate, they activate an antiviral response and inhibit infection.
One mechanism may be interferon, and this can determine susceptibility.
Okay, so that's- So it's gotten infinitely more complex than it was.
It means that rotavirus is not really solved the way that he says it's solved.
It means that polio is not really solved the way he says it's solved.
It means that they didn't know jack about enteroviruses.
If enteroviruses are indeed anything like they claim they are.
They didn't know about a crucial mechanism of regulation, a crucial mechanism
of facilitation of their apparent phenomenon that they are an expert in.
And now they have a new layer of complexity and he shrugs it off as if he's reading a newspaper about what happened in the Cubs game because baseball still exists and all the rules are still the same.
It's not that way at all.
It's not just a new champion.
It's not just that the Cubs have finally won the World Series, but baseball is still baseball.
It is that they didn't know jack about enteroviruses, had anything to do with bile acids, had anything to do with the microbiome unconjugating bile acids.
Now they know that it could be one of the general mechanisms by which these entities that they purport to be experts in might operate.
It's no big deal though, it's cool.
Just have to add a little color over here in the cartoon and then our cartoon is basically still valid.
Stop lying!
Bile acids, conjugated and unconjugated, right?
And their effect.
So conjugated bile acids help neuroviruses, and unconjugated do not.
OK.
Now, the other important part here is that bile acids are different in neonates and adults.
First of all, the genes are regulated.
They're off or low at birth, and then they go up.
The bacteria are not all there at the beginning, right?
They're low at birth.
They steadily increase.
Enterohepatic cycling, right?
The cycling of bile acids is diminished in neonates.
And so what they're going to miss here, and I'm just preparing you for what I'm hearing, what they're going to miss here is that the immune system of a neonate and the immune system of a breastfeeding baby, the immune system of a young toddler, the immune system of a young
adolescent and a young teenager, the immune system is ever interacting with the gut microbiome, ever building a tolerance to the gut microbiome and the proteins that are produced there, ever building an interaction that includes the exchange of bile acids that are conjugated and unconjugated and the recycling of them to facilitate the absorption of and digestion of lipid-based nutrients and chemicals that the body needs.
And enteroviruses, according to these people, are a part of that system that heretofore we didn't understand nearly as well as we used to because we didn't understand this key aspect of how they are moving around, how they get where they're going, and how the production of bile acids and the interaction and processing of those by the gut microbiome sort of feed back on this.
And they still talk as though the rotavirus vaccine works, the polio vaccine works, because we understand it.
Even though we didn't know about this huge thing, you know, the engine in the beginning, in the front of the car that has all these pistons in it, that's attached to this driveshaft, that's attached to the wheels.
You've been telling me for 40 years that the exhaust vapor that's coming out the back of the car and the correlation between the metals and the temperature tells me something I know about the speed and power of the car, but that's not true at all.
It's whether or not this part is connected to that part and this part is running or not.
They are ignoring the fact that they have been pointing to the tailpipe for 20 years and pointing to their firm understanding about how these viruses replicate when they knew nothing about it.
They knew nothing about at least three layers of how this works.
And they're still not being specific enough because they're still in a mouse.
They're still talking about the microbiome as if it's a thing instead of a flora, a bouquet of things.
as if the microbiome can just be sequenced.
Oh wait, Sabine Hazan will tell you that it can just be sequenced.
Stop lying!
get maternal bile acids, and the maternal bile acids are conjugated.
And remember, the conjugated bile acids can potentiate virus infection.
So you have host bile acids, which potentiate virus replication, and you have microbial that modulate it.
This is an interesting little push-pull here that's going on, right?
Except it's a push-pull that involves the symbiotic.
It's not push-pull at all, because the bacteria have nothing to unconjugate if we don't produce the bile acid.
And since all that bile acid that we produce is conjugated, you see?
So the bacteria are actually just doing their job, doing what they do as part of this symbiotic relationship where bile acids are used to absorb things.
It's an extraordinary thing because they're also used to detoxify.
And so you can see a very clever thing where they're just kind of hinting at it, but not really telling you that taurine, and what did they say, glycine,
are conjugated to these and then the unconjugation occurs in the bacteria.
Where does the taurine and the glycine go?
What else can be conjugated to bile acids?
Could we get rid of toxins with bile acids?
And so where are we here now?
We are again, firmly inside of the trap because with reductionist biology,
where you focus on a few variables and the rest is assumptions, then these assumptions are never tested.
The parts of the model of your understanding of reality that are here, our assumptions are never tested.
And we have the false sense of security that these limited reductionist investigations are buttressing
the assumptions upon which the investigation is based.
In other words, exactly what Matthew Briggs has been trying to explain to us, that we get into the logic over here, and we assume that the realistic and real mathematical logic that we do over here is providing edifying observations for the assumptions that we are making over here, when that is an absolutely false
but it is the basis for progress in academia.
It is the basis for progress in academia, where a reductionist model and a reductionist experiment and observations made in that context are falsely used to create an illusion of understanding over here.
A reductionist model of mouse and the brain and autism can be used
to pretend that the assertion that genes can cause autism at the population level has been supported by a reductionist investigation involving a mouse model of autism and SK channels in the brain.
Can you see it?
And the same thing is being done here, where a reductionist model of digestion and a reductionist model of enterovirus is being falsely edified by another observation of complexity instead of going, well, now our understanding of enteroviruses in general is even on shakier ground than it was a couple months ago.
These people do the same exercise.
This reductionist experiment provides edifying data for our assumptions about enteroviruses.
And now you see how much work we have to do, because we could do this every day with every paper in biology in almost every field.
We could take the reductionist model that they are testing
with very rigorous logic and very rigorous p-values and demonstrate how these p-values and the very rigorous logic used to apply them does not result in edifying observations which support these assumptions around which the experiment was designed.
I think that's the clip, Jeff.
I think that's the thing that we need to say.
That's the thing we need to understand.
That's the thing that the next years of my work are going to be dedicated to.
trying to get young people to be able to understand, young biologists to understand that this framework can be as malevolently applied as it can be reverently applied.
And up until now, Biology 101 has been applied malevolently.
to give you the false sense of fidelity and a false sense of understanding that almost everything is done, that almost all problems are solved, because one or two of these layers of analysis is paramount.
And we do not understand any level of analysis, especially the genetic one, in such a way to call it paramount or to understand what it really does with respect to the rest of our understanding of our own pattern integrity.
Now, I wanna revisit pattern integrities again on Thursday because there's been some confusion because I seem to imply that there's no real division of pattern integrity here, but there absolutely is a division of pattern integrity at organism, at the individual organism that takes in energy, produces waste, repairs itself, grows and develops,
matures, all of these words and processes can only be found in a pattern integrity.
So the weather is not a pattern integrity.
Chemistry is not a pattern integrity.
Those are something different.
Those are more fundamental.
A pattern integrity is something that exists on top of chemistry and physics to sustain itself, to grow, and to replicate itself.
It's not the same thing as
a chemical reaction or a physical law.
And so be very, very aware.
I'm not suggesting that you can't delineate what a pattern integrity is in the context of Earth's biology.
A pattern integrity is an organism, is a living thing, and a living thing does certain things that non-pattern integrities do not.
And so I hope this wasn't a complete waste of time.
I know I rambled a lot about the dog and I know I rambled a lot about this stuff with regard to Twiv.
But I did have...
In my mind, at least, in my imagination, I thought I had a good message today and I don't know if I hit it out or not, but that's where we are.
That's what we're doing.
This has been Giga Ohm Biological.
This has been Biological 101, Biology 101 underscore three.
We're talking about understanding life as a pattern integrity.
And I will be on at...
Wow, that's really close.
I'll see how PeerTube is doing.
I might make it 1414 to do the third installment of the Uncertainty class of William Briggs after I get some lunch and drink some water and that kind of thing.
Thanks very much for joining me.
Thanks for being here.
Thanks for having the patience over the weekend and the faith that I would come back.
And thanks for praying for my dog if you did indeed do that.
I think a lot of people must have because the turnaround was nothing short of miraculous.
That's how I would say it.
So, thanks very much.
I appreciate all of you in an unimaginable way.
Thanks, thanks, thanks.
I'll see you guys again tomorrow.
I'm not sure what I'm going to do tomorrow, but I'll have something.
I got a whole laundry list of things to do.
Actually, I think I know what I'm going to do tomorrow.
Tomorrow I'm going to do a Charlie Rose show with Jeffrey Sachs and Peter Hotez.
and a Nobel Prize winner that Mark Kulak of Housatonic ITS, Housatonic Live, posted on all of his channels.
It's a really interesting show that I dare you to watch before we review it tomorrow in a study hall to see if you find what I found.
I think it'll be really interesting.
I know Mark
Will be very curious as to what I found in that video.
So anyway Thanks for being here.
Thanks for supporting the stream If you want to support you go to get home biological comm and find a way to support it.
Thank you very much Steven C Thank you very much Carrie Girl rocks.
We got you.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jeff from Earth Thanks, Greg
I don't know.
Thank you for the people that support this stream with little donations and small ones.
My whole family will be eternally grateful and I hope that I'm making you all proud.
And again, I'll see you later on this afternoon and then again tomorrow.
Just trying to build up the momentum.
And thank you very much.
Stream.GigaOM.Bio if you want to share the videos afterward.
See you later.
Vitamin A is an interesting story.
Anyway, see you guys again.